apps/react/docs/docs/02-Installation/02-Option 2 Local Development Setup/03-step-by-step-setup.mdx, before:

---
id: step-by-step-setup
title: 🛠️ Step by step for local development setup
---

# Step by step for local development setup 🛠️

This section will involves several key steps to ensure all components of the WKS Power Platform are properly set up and integrated:

## 📋 Prerequisites
    - Docker and Docker Compose are installed on your system.
    - Java 17 and Maven 3.8.x or higher are installed for building the Spring Boot microservices.
    - Node.js, npm, and Yarn are installed for building and running the Node.js React apps.

## Step 1: Preparation

### I. Clone the WKS Platform repository 📥
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/wkspower/wks-platform.git
    cd wks-platform
    ```
### II. From the project root folder, navigate to the java project folder 🚶‍♂️
    ```bash
    cd apps/java
    ```
### III. Build all the microservices at once using Maven for later usage 🏗️
    ```bash
    mvn clean install package
    ```

## Step 2: Custom Domain Configuration
:::note
Skip if you only intent to only use it on localhost
:::

- Copy settings from `/.env-sample` to `/.env` then updated the file to configure essential service URLs, Keycloak Realms, and operational flags:
    - `MONGO_DEMO_DATA_LOADER_DATABASE=subdomain`
    - `KEYCLOAK_TOKEN_URL=http://keycloak:8080/realms/subdomain/protocol/openid-connect/token`
    - `WEBSOCKET_ENABLED=true`
    - `WEBSOCKET_URL=ws://subdomain.domain.io:8484/`
    - `MINIO_HOST=subdomain.domain.io`
    - Optional for novu notifications:
        - `NOVU_ENABLED=true`
        - `NOVU_PUBLISHER_API_URL=http://subdomain.domain.io:3002/`
        - `NOVU_APP_ID=your-id`
        - `NOVU_API_KEY=your-key`
    - Default Usernames & Passwords also can be changed:
        - `KEYCLOAK_ADMIN=admin`
        - `KEYCLOAK_ADMIN_PASSWORD=admin`
        - `KEYCLOAK_DEFAULT_USER=demo`
        - `KEYCLOAK_DEFAULT_USER_PASSWORD=demo`
        - `KEYCLOAK_DEFAULT_USER_FIRST_NAME=demo`
        - `KEYCLOAK_DEFAULT_USER_LAST_NAME=demo`
        - `KEYCLOAK_DEFAULT_USER_EMAIL=demo@demo.com`
        - `MINIO_ROOT_USER=minio`
        - `MINIO_ROOT_PASSWORD='#minio00#'`

- Update `docker-compose.portal.yaml:` to ensure front-end configuration aligns with backend services:
    - `REACT_APP_KEYCLOAK_URL=http://subdomain.domain.io:8082/`
    - `REACT_APP_API_URL=http://subdomain.domain.io:8081/`
    - `REACT_APP_STORAGE_URL=http://subdomain.domain.io:8085/`

## Step 3: Deployment

### 🚀 Run Full Startup Shell Script
    ```bash
    sh docker-full-startup.sh
    ```
After successfully running the shell script to start all of the the Docker Compose configurations, it may take a while for all the web applications to finish their startup process.

## Step 4: Service Configuration
:::note
Skip if application domain havn't been customized
:::

Once the startup is complete, Manually replace wks-portal Keycloak Client's `Web origins` and `Valid redirect URIs` to match your domain.

Commit message:

docs: Update installation option 2 step 4 adding localhost hosting configuration..

apps/react/docs/docs/02-Installation/02-Option 2 Local Development Setup/03-step-by-step-setup.mdx, after:

---
id: step-by-step-setup
title: 🛠️ Step by step for local development setup
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Step by step for local development setup 🛠️

This section will involves several key steps to ensure all components of the WKS Power Platform are properly set up and integrated:

## 📋 Prerequisites
    - Docker and Docker Compose are installed on your system.
    - Java 17 and Maven 3.8.x or higher are installed for building the Spring Boot microservices.
    - Node.js, npm, and Yarn are installed for building and running the Node.js React apps.

## Step 1: Preparation

### I. Clone the WKS Platform repository 📥
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/wkspower/wks-platform.git
    cd wks-platform
    ```
### II. From the project root folder, navigate to the java project folder 🚶‍♂️
    ```bash
    cd apps/java
    ```
### III. Build all the microservices at once using Maven for later usage 🏗️
    ```bash
    mvn clean install package
    ```

## Step 2: Custom Domain Configuration
:::note
Skip if you only intent to only use it on localhost
:::

- Copy settings from `/.env-sample` to `/.env` then updated the file to configure essential service URLs, Keycloak Realms, and operational flags:
    - `MONGO_DEMO_DATA_LOADER_DATABASE=subdomain`
    - `KEYCLOAK_TOKEN_URL=http://keycloak:8080/realms/subdomain/protocol/openid-connect/token`
    - `WEBSOCKET_ENABLED=true`
    - `WEBSOCKET_URL=ws://subdomain.domain.io:8484/`
    - `MINIO_HOST=subdomain.domain.io`
    - Optional for novu notifications:
        - `NOVU_ENABLED=true`
        - `NOVU_PUBLISHER_API_URL=http://subdomain.domain.io:3002/`
        - `NOVU_APP_ID=your-id`
        - `NOVU_API_KEY=your-key`
    - Default Usernames & Passwords also can be changed:
        - `KEYCLOAK_ADMIN=admin`
        - `KEYCLOAK_ADMIN_PASSWORD=admin`
        - `KEYCLOAK_DEFAULT_USER=demo`
        - `KEYCLOAK_DEFAULT_USER_PASSWORD=demo`
        - `KEYCLOAK_DEFAULT_USER_FIRST_NAME=demo`
        - `KEYCLOAK_DEFAULT_USER_LAST_NAME=demo`
        - `KEYCLOAK_DEFAULT_USER_EMAIL=demo@demo.com`
        - `MINIO_ROOT_USER=minio`
        - `MINIO_ROOT_PASSWORD='#minio00#'`

- Update `docker-compose.portal.yaml:` to ensure front-end configuration aligns with backend services:
    - `REACT_APP_KEYCLOAK_URL=http://subdomain.domain.io:8082/`
    - `REACT_APP_API_URL=http://subdomain.domain.io:8081/`
    - `REACT_APP_STORAGE_URL=http://subdomain.domain.io:8085/`

## Step 3: Deployment

### 🚀 Run Full Startup Shell Script
    ```bash
    sh docker-full-startup.sh
    ```
After successfully running the shell script to start all of the the Docker Compose configurations, it may take a while for all the web applications to finish their startup process.

## Step 4: Service Configuration

<Tabs>
    <TabItem value="custom" label="Custom Domain" default>
        Once the startup is complete, Manually replace `wks-portal` Keycloak Client's `Web origins` and `Valid redirect URIs` to match your domain.
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="local" label="Localhost">
        Since the domain isn't customized and MINIO_HOST is set to the default (minio), you'll need to modify your system's hosts file to ensure file uploads work correctly. Follow these steps:
        1. Edit the `/etc/hosts` file with administrative privileges. You can use Nano or any other text editor. Enter the following command in your terminal:
            ```bash"
            sudo nano /etc/hosts
            ```
        2. Append `minio` to the line that contains `localhost`. This points requests for minio to your local machine, which is useful for development and testing. Update the file to look like this:
            ```bash title="/etc/hosts"
            127.0.0.1 localhost minio
            ```
        Save and exit the editor. For Nano, you can do this by pressing Ctrl+O to write the changes, followed by Ctrl+X to close the editor.
    </TabItem>
</Tabs>
